# Folder Cleaning — User Guide

PURPOSE
Turn a messy folder into a clean, sensible structure. An AI reads your files,
proposes where each one should go, you approve, and the tool moves them.
Safe by design: your files are never changed or moved until you approve, nothing
is ever deleted (anything replaced is archived), and every run can be undone.

HOW IT WORKS (big picture)
1. SCAN     — the tool lists the folder and reads a short preview of each file.
              It does not move or edit anything at this stage.
2. PROPOSE  — the AI suggests a new folder structure and a home for every file.
3. REVIEW   — you read the proposal and approve it (or ask for changes).
4. APPLY    — the tool moves the files into the new structure.
5. UNDO     — not happy? one command puts everything back exactly as it was.

All working files (the proposal, logs, the undo script) are written inside a
"_DATA_CLEANING" subfolder of the folder being cleaned, so they stay out of your way.

WHO DOES WHAT
The AI assistant runs the commands and writes the analysis. You only make the
decisions: confirm what must not move, then review and approve the proposal.

THE STEPS
Commands run from the "scripts" folder; replace <folder> with your folder.
Each command prints what to do next.

1. Start        pwsh run-folder-cleaning.ps1 -SourcePath "<folder>"
                Scans, then pauses to ask which files/folders must be protected.
2. Continue     ...-Resume   (after the AI notes the context and protected items)
                Pauses again while the AI reads the file previews.
3. Get proposal ...-Resume   (after the AI writes its analysis)
                Creates "approval-view.md" — the proposed structure to review.
4. Adjust       Ask in plain words ("rename that folder", "move this file") and re-run.
5. Approve      ...-Resume -Approve
6. Apply        ...-Mode apply        Moves the files into the new structure.
7. Undo         run "rollback.ps1"    Restores every file to where it was.

GOOD TO KNOW
- OneDrive "online-only" files: add -HydrateCloud so they are downloaded and
  analyzed instead of skipped.
- PDFs: reading their text needs poppler's "pdftotext" installed (already set up
  on this machine).
- Dry run: add -SkipAI to confirm the tool runs end to end without the AI.
